---
layout: post
title:  "Why I intermittently fast"
date: 2020-08-22 19:28:35 +0100
categories: garbage
---

# Intermittent fasting.

I have gotten a lot of questions about why I intermittent fast. There are
numerous reasons. But here is a list of some of the best ones.

## How I fast.

There are many different ways to do intermittent fasting. 5-2, 16-8, OMAD,
alternate day. My preferred way is a very flexible 16-8/OMAD. The thing is that
I usually skip my fasting routine once a week or more. Lunch meetings, parties,
weekend brunch and other such things usually take priority.

I try to eat only directly after lunch until I go to bed. Sometimes this is
once a day around 8 p.m. or directly when I get home from work, with something
small before going to sleep.

This is the key to be able to keep any to diet in my opinion. Being flexible
and "getting back on the horse" when you fall down. If I were more strict with
my timing windows I probably would not still be doing it.

## Pros.

### No more lunch box.

I always thought that preparing food for the day, remembering your lunch box,
and to bring it home was a nuisance. It seems small. But I really hated
spending Sunday evening "meal prepping" instead of relaxing.

### No more lunch restaurants.

This is a more obvious one. I save a lot of money on not going out for lunch
every weekday. I also get some extra time during lunch to go to the gym during
the lunch break.

### Serious meals.

I actually really like cooking food. But so much of the food we eat is just to
get though the day, and if you are going to cook really ambitious food three
times a day you are probably not going to do much else that day. So a lot of
times when I get home I like to get really serious with what I cook. Since this
is going to be the only meal for today, and probably for tomorrow also.

### Health.

While I can't really say that fasting is better than any other calorie
restrictive diet. The health implications of eating less is well studied.

## Cons.

### Hunger.

This is a very difficult issue. You kind of get used to the hunger after a
while. I would not say that you get less hungry though. It just feels less
urgent.

The feeling of being faint totally disappears after a while. In the first
couple of months I was be pretty close to fainting a couple of times when going
especially hard in the gym. But your body adapts to it.

Intermittent fasting won't give you superpowers. It won't give you "more
energy" or make you any smarter. But I feel like it's the easiest diet to
follow given my life situation.
